Portfolio
=========

Atlantica Game Project
----------------------

In my most previous term of school, I was fortunate enough to be able to
take the course CS4300 at Memorial University, taught by Professor Dave
Churchill. The cool thing about the course is that it is entirely based
around projects and assignments, with the goal of the lectures being to
familiarize us with various game development concepts. These concepts
were then formalized in the four assignments of the course. Each
assignment built upon the codebase of the last, which we were then able
to leverage in completing the final project.

The course used the [SFML](https://www.sfml-dev.org/) C++ library to
abstract away platform-specific APIs relating to graphics, windows,
sound, and asset loading, and the main concept that was taught was the
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity\_component\_system](Entity-Component-System)
paradigm of structuring applications (specifically games), and how using
a data-oriented approach can improve performance, and allow for a more
nuanced understanding of how data is structured in memory.

For the final project, me and the other members of my group decided to
build a top-down Zelda clone called Atlantica (the name paying homage to
our home, an
[island](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newfoundland_(island)) in the
Atlantic Ocean).

Atlantica contains a fully-fledged level editor, a main menu, settings
menu, and Overworld scene where the level is selected. There is an
inventory system, parallax, multiple enemy types, a boss battle, sticky
tiles, and many other features.

One lesson we all learned upon the completion of the project was of the
importance of time management. Even though we had budgeted time to work
on the game, our pace was still not fast enough, considering that we had
four other final exams to write the week the project was due, along with
all the studying that came with it. One important lesson I think I
personally learned from completing the game is the importance of not
only time management, but also of prioritization. When I should\'ve been
working on the game, I was studying for exams where I had already
attained enough knowledge to get the grade I wanted in the course, and
on the exam. I should have focused more time on the game earlier to
build momentum, which would have reduced the grind in the last 48 hours
to get the game to a complete state.

All in all, I was really glad to be able to take this course, and feel
like I obtained a lot of technical knowledge of game development, ECS,
and designing large complex applications, and improved my soft skills in
time management, prioritization, working in a group, and planning.

Below are some photos/gifs of the game:

![](media/Gameplay.gif) ![](media/Boss.png) ![](media/LevelEditor.png)
![](media/OverWorld.png) ![](media/PauseMenu.png)
