January 16th 2024
=================

A book review - The Comfort Crisis
==================================

it is not my new year\'s resolution to read more books (nor do i even
have a new year\'s resolution), but i have been trying to make a series
of more positive lifestyle changes in the recent months since i have
moved to california. i got hitched to the self-help genre of books and
thus i have read a bunch of books in the genre over the last year,
including \"the subtle art of not giving a fuck\" by mark manson,
\"atomic habits\" by james clear, among others. \"the subtle art of not
giving a fuck\" stuck out to me because it basically said what everybody
who reads self-help needs to hear, all this advice is the same advice
written in different words. this made me realize that it was more
important to put these ideas to practice in my own life rather than
continuing to read books in the genre and feeling good about doing that
without actually making any changes. i never had anything crazy going on
in my life at the time. i used to play a lot of hockey growing up and so
i picked up discipline from doing that (i dreaded going to all the
practices and training sessions, but i did it), and i am glad of that.
since being in engineering school for five years broke some of those
exercise and discipline habits that i had, i realized that i should get
them back, with the slightly different aim of prolonging my healthspan.
my exercise habits were translated into good study habits and work ethic
in university, which contributed to me caring too much about my grades.
with school out of the way and a full time job taking up 40 hours of my
week instead, i figured out quickly that i needed to build these
exercise habits to fill some of my spare time, and to prevent me from
getting bored and doom-scrolling on youtube for hours and hours. i also
took up reading to eat up some more of my downtime and replace pre-bed
hour of phone scrolling as well. Anyways, this long preamble leads into
the latest book I am reading called \"The Comfort Crisis\" by Michael
Easter, and I am liking it so far and decided to write a review. So here
goes\... The point of Easter\'s book is to show that we as humans in
modern society have gotten way too comfortable with modern life, and
this is leading to all sorts of detrimental health effects. Lifespan has
decreased in the US in recent years for the first time ever, and many
are dissatisfied with their lives. Rates of suicide and drug use are
surely up, but at the same time life has never been better, we have
access to so much affordable technology, and can buy anything we want on
Amazon. We can get seasonal produce year-round in the grocery store, and
most people will never have to struggle to find food. So how is it that
we perceive our lives as getting worse? Easter explains that boredom is
becoming scarce, and that there have been some studies that show that
boredom is necessary for a variety of reasons. We are constantly picking
up our phones, and then putting them down and turning on the TV. We are
missing this boredom time that previous generations had when they got on
the train, or waited in line at the store. Easter also demonstrates that
we are not seeking to make our lives discomfortable enough either, and
this is causing us to lose satisfaction. He goes on a hunting excursion
in the Alaskan tundra for a month, and he uses this experience to
reflect on these things a lot. \... Continue talking about book once I
have finished reading it \... This book has made me realize that I need
to stop putting stuff off in my life and just do stuff now (including
starting to blog and write this sort-of book review), I have found that
if I consciously say I am going to ignore my phone, I will think of
other things to occupy myself (like going to the gym or reading). Now
obviously not everyone will have the same experience or the same amount
of willpower to just drop the phone and go do something, but this is
something that can be practiced. When I get in bed on the weeknights, I
feel a hell of a lot better if I accomplished something that day rather
than went to work, came home, microwaved food and watched TV all
evening. Of course there are still times when I find myself slipping
into doing this, but for the most part I really try to put the phone
away and do other stuff. The way I see it is that any day where I do
something that is beneficial to my personal development (like blogging
or exercising), the better I become as a person and the more fulfillment
I experience. Even when it comes to work, I can benefit my personal
development by using my free time to do things like leetcode and
personal projects, which will help when I need to find a new job in a
couple of year\'s time.
