November 18th 2024
===================

What I learned writing a Chip8 Emulator 
========================================

Like many others, I have a bad habit of starting many projects and not
actually finishing them. In spite of that, I have mostly completed a
project, and wanted to share some information about it, and what I
learned.

I wrote a Chip8 emulator in C, using raylib as a dependency to get the
graphics up and running easily ([I have gone down the game engine
rabbit hole before](https://github.com/Burke-Daniel/Aquarius)). Chip8
is itself a virtual machine that was used on some microcomputers back
in the 1970s and 80s. The benefit of it was that games could be
written for the Chip8 interpreter, and subsequently ran on any
platforms that supported Chip8. It is a very simple instruction set,
and thus it is a very popular target for programmers today who want to
delve into the world of emulation. The base Chip8 instruction set only
has 35 instructions, so it is pretty easy to get the instruction
decode part of the emulator up and running quickly using [Cowgod's excellent
reference document](http://devernay.free.fr/hacks/chip8/C8TECH10.HTM).

Using raylib meant that the graphics part of the project was also
pretty easy to get set up, as the Chip8 display only consists of a
64x32 grid of pixels, so I was able to handle that with individual
drawRectangle calls, where I scaled the pixel size up to 2048x1024 so
that it is not tiny on a modern computer screen.

The most complicated instruction to implement is the draw call, since
Chip8 uses an interesting method of drawing sprites to the
screen. Since it only has 16 general purpose registers, the sprites
are stored in memory (in fact, the spec specifies that the hexadecimal
digits 0 through F be stored in memory starting at address 0x000), and
the location to start drawing at is stored in two registers.

After coding up the instruction decode logic and the draw
functionality, I had something that was at least partially working. I
used many test ROM's downloaded from various GitHub repos, and one of
the classic first ROM's to run on a Chip8 emulator is one that prints
the IBM logo. When I first ran the ROM, I could see that my draw call
was at least drawing something to the screen, however I didn't get the
IBM logo exactly as it should have appeared. Something seemed
misaligned, and after triple-checking my draw implementation, I still
didn't understand why it wasn't working.

Side Note: This is one of the reasons why I think I and many others
start projects and don't finish them - at some point in the project
you will encounter a bug that takes a really long time to solve, and
unfortunately this is where the momentum goes away, and it becomes
hard to pick up the project and keep debugging. My solution to this is
to just accept that it is going to be painful to debug
(it can't always be fun), and that the end result will be worth it.

So, after struggling for some time, I found the bug in a place where
in an unexpected place, bit-endianness. When I was first starting out
I was printing a lot of debug information to the console, including
each instruction. Somewhere along the way, I started converting the
whole ROM from big-endian to little-endian (instructions in Chip8 are
stored big-endian). What I failed to realize was that by doing this, I
was converting the endianness of the sprite data unnecessarily. Once I
started only converting the endianness of the instruction I am
currently executing, the bug went away.

After this, I was able to implement keyboard input and the sound timer
sound easily using raylib, and at this point I had a mostly working
Chip8 emulator. After using some test ROM's to iron out some more bugs
([source](https://github.com/Timendus/chip8-test-suite)), the emulator
was in a good place.

Next, I started to think of enhancements I wanted to make to the
project. One area I feel I am lacking in experience is in the browser,
I have not done much web development thus far in my career, and so I
wanted to explore what is possible in the browser. Instead of
re-writing the whole project in JavaScript, I wanted to use
WebAssembly to compile the current code for the browser. It turns out,
this is completely trivial with raylib, as the library is able to be
compiled for PLATFORM_WEB using emscripten. Using
their default HTML template, I had the emulator working in the
browser.

My next enhancement was to write my own HTML front-end for the
emulator that allowed the user to select their own ROM file from
disk. In trying to implement this, I hit another point in the project
where things got difficult and I felt like I was banging my head
against the wall to get things working. The issue was that I didn't
have a good knowledge of of the HTML, JS, and compiled WASM interacted
to allow the emulator to run in the browser. After doing a bit of
reading on emscripten and how it works, I was able to base my "shell"
HTML template off the minimal one that comes with the emcc compiler,
and add some JavaScript code to create the canvas element that the
emulator runs inside of, and the file picker input tag that I could
use to select a file.

The final complication was getting the ROM data from JS to WASM. What
I learned is that there are many different ways to do this, and after
experimenting with the [many
ways](https://emscripten.org/docs/porting/connecting_cpp_and_javascript/Interacting-with-code.html),
I figured out that I could malloc some memory in javascript by
exposing malloc to the JS code, copy my Uint8Array of ROM data into
that memory, and then point my C code to that same memory since it was
allocated by the WASM runtime.

It worked perfectly, and so in the browser I am able to present a file
picker, select a file from disk, and then the emulator starts running
with that ROM file.

Aside from some other WASM quirks and fixing up the code after adding
the web support, I feel like the project is in a good state. Some
things I still want to do are add some styling to the file picker in
the browser, and add buttons to run pre-loaded ROM's as well.

The desktop version of the emulator also doesn't have a menu, which is
something I could implement simply in raylib to bring it up to snuff
with the web version.

In future, I will try and add the emulator to this website so that it
can be ran directly from here, but for now you can find it on Github [here](https://github.com/Burke-Daniel/chip8).

Overall, I feel like this project was a success. In the future, I want
to experiment more with emulation as I would love to implement
something slightly more complex next time. This project was a good
intro into the world of emulation, and also into the world of web and WebAssembly.
